---
layout: post
title: Wyzer
tags: [Product + System design, User centered design]
categories: [project]

excerpt: 'A new watch concept that teaches analog time reading via a system of evolving watch faces.'

featured_image: wyzer-cover.jpg
featured_image_alt: Photo of Wyzer in use.

external_link:
clean_link_title:

color: orange
---

*How do you teach analog time telling to children and adults struggling with the concept of time in a circle?*

Disabilities like dyslexia, dyscalculia or a difficulty with understanding
time can leave people unable to tell analog time for a long period of their
life. A feeling of shame and the ubiquitous presence of digital time prevents
people with these difficulties from learning to read analog watches.

### An evolving time telling system
Wyzer is a new watch concept that teaches analog time reading in an unhurried
pace via a system of evolving watch faces. Slowly the face of the watch evolves
from digital to analog, adding or removing important parts step by step.

Each next step is initiated when the user has shown understanding of the
current phase: the user has to hold the watch to see the time. The faster
the user knows what time it is, the sooner the watch switches to a new face.

### Philosophy
With its well designed appearance and lack of visible “special needs” features
Wyzer takes away the shame in learning to tell the time. The philosophy of the
Wyzer project puts the user back in society by not advocating to learn a different, special time system, but teaching exactly the analog time system that is already present all over the world.