---
layout: post
title: About "Flash must die" and other populist web statements
categories: [blog]
---
<p><em>Recently, I once again encountered a comment on a news item stating that "Flash should die as soon as possible". It was a comment out of nowhere, with no explanation or reasonable context. Let me explain a bit about why I think these kinds of statements are bad for our web development community.</em></p><p>As the web evolves, new techniques come and go. It's an unwritten law that the cool stuff becomes the dull stuff after several years. Animated GIF's were cool once (and <a href="http://cinemagraphs.com/" title="Cinemagraphs are cool" target="_blank">some are still cool</a> now), just like table layouts and WYSIWYG editors once were.</p><p>Flash is a good example of a technology that has had it's best time just about now. HTML5 can do without Flash video and audio, and CSS3 has animations and new advanced styling options. In the near future, Flash will no longer be a necessity but an annoyance to implementers and users. Especially users who are fairly web-savvy associate Flash with large and disruptive ads, slow applications and vulnerability issues.</p>

<!--more-->

<p>I don't want to say Flash isn't all that. In fact, the points mentioned above could all very well be true. I can't say for sure, because I'm not a Flash developer. The point here is that it <em>feels </em>this way for users and hipster web developers. The criticism that Flash gets from these people has made it a widely hated product. <em>Flash</em> is almost like a curse word in modern web design. This is an exponentially extending trend, meaning, because more and more people hate Flash, it becomes less popular, meaning even more people will turn away from it, by which it will become less popular, etcetera.</p><h3>Is it Flash only?</h3><p>This also goes for other technologies. Dreamweaver is also on the not-for-cool-kids list, and FTP is becoming one as a result of the rising popularity of version control systems. Let me be clear by saying these developments are all fine: I totally see the benefits of using version control and a deployment framework over live FTPing everything.</p><p>Let us not, however, stoop to the level of starting a crusade on killing old technologies, for instance by posting random outrageous populist comments on blog posts. Here is why not:</p><ol><li>Your comment does not contribute anything to the web development community. Yes, you hate Flash. Yes, it should be gone soon. We know this. Maybe you could instead write your own blogpost about how you can make stuff just like people used to in Flash, but then with HTML5 stuff, eh? Wouldn't that be way cooler?</li><li>You trigger unknowing people (web surfers, starting web developers) into hating the same things you hate. You're only supporting the populist riots against these technologies. People start hating it because hating it is cool. This is not what we want. You should have an opinion about things because you are informed about what they are. (The reverse effect is also true. People love "HTML5" because lovin' it is for the cool kids. When you ask any intermediate web user "what is so cool about HTML5?", you probably won't hear anything about semantics or new JavaScript API's.)</li><li> I don't like negative thinking. Especially when expressing thoughts on the web, positivism is the way to go. Assume that everything sounds negative until you add either jokes or smileys. :)</li></ol><h3>So?</h3><p>Moral of this story: try to bash the dying technologies less, and instead spend your time on using and improving the new 'n cool things. We already know about how much you hate Flash, and Dreamweaver, and FTP, and PHP, and tables, and... all that. Educate the newcomers with the right range of information, think positive and spend your time wisely.</p>
